this video is not really directly about
dating or romance but it is in large
part or a view of a dating amp it may
seem like just yesterday that I had long
format discussions on these topics on
this channel but it was actually a year
and a half ago I'm reminded this in part
because literally yesterday I was
talking to the illustrious youtuber
asked herself also known as Isaac we're
starting to ask yourself abut exactly
these themes that a year and a half ago
I discussed in this channel with tofu
goddess I think my interviews that tofu
goddess are some of the best videos on
this channel some of the best podcasts
have ever done etc I wish that you guys
would send her a message on Twitter
asking her to come back on the channel
so I'm gonna give her Twitter link below
this video go over there send her a
message saying hey you remember the last
time she came on how about let CL and
I'd love to have Rebecca on talk about
those issues
partly because I know in the last year
and a half she and I both have been
through a whole lot of living a lot of I
don't know
life-changing experiences and if you
interesting to see her perspective on
some of the same issues I'd also like to
press on some other issues talking about
mmm politics education policy future
veganism in Canada what we're gonna do
about it that's not what this video is
about this video is about bumble and
before I get into the app bumble and
whether or not it's possible to use this
or any app for friendship friendship
rather than romance the contrast between
those two and how it all breaks down the
digital era let me just say back when I
was married I'm now divorced but many
many years ago when I was a married man
I remember sitting down with my wife and
with fascination using one of the dating
websites this wasn't an app for a mobile
phone but a website using it just to
look up demographic questions like I was
studying Chinese so you start by using
this website like like a database and
search okay what kind of people living
within 100 kilometers of me or 100 miles
whatever living within a certain radius
how many people are studying Chinese so
you put in you be able to put in this
criterion like I'm looking for someone
who is studying Chinese um and then you
know you'd get this kind of list to
scroll through now of course it's not
like real social science research but in
some ways I mean it's you know it's just
as revelatory
it's just as informative as as tweive
real social science research um you'd be
able to put in something like okay how
many he could be in another part of the
world to like I've read about on the
internet vaguely the fact that veganism
was really big in Israel so be able to
put in like you know but do a worldwide
search for you know vegans living in
Israel and then some other criterion and
the dating web so it would give you
these profiles that would give you you
know a reasonably deep snapshot of the
type of people who were vegan living in
Israel the type of people who were vegan
and learning Chinese and currently
enrolled in a ph.d program the type of
people who happen to live in California
or Saskatchewan Canada or some of the
things anyways so just remember in the
website I'm thinking of it was primarily
designed and created for for romance for
people to find members the opposite sex
before being blonde what these these
websites weren't made for same-sex or
bisexual romance I think all of them
have tried to you know have some kind of
drop-down menu that lets lets those
buckets also use them but it's not what
they're designing created for and then
to some extent you can declare that
you're only looking for friends or that
you're already in a relationship that
you're not trying to use the website in
that way and still have access to it and
maybe kind of sort of find someone who's
willing to have a cup of coffee with you
in my opinion it's part of one making
this video now it's really interesting
to reflect on why these same websites
don't work well this way and for me it's
also like a meditation on philosophical
questions of why it's so hard for I
don't know adults to make new friends
after they finished high school
everything is a big question for
english-speaking Western civilization
can of the United States England from
what I hear also Australia I've never
lived in Australia but yeah it's a
puzzle and it's a puzzle you put
together out of many jagged pieces with
many rough edges some of which came into
very sharp contest for me when I
downloaded the app Bumble right yeah I
think so
um bumble and and I did so because I
read that it doesn't just do dating
allegedly also does friendship its first
foremost let's just talk about the
revenue-generating model for
applications and websites like bump
bumble these are so-called
matchmaking websites but what they do is
is radically different from what a
matchmaker would do historically right
so to give you an example of how how
bumble makes its money you know sorry a
matchmaker five hundred years ago would
be someone you would pay or maybe just a
member of your community have some kind
of relation to it could be an aunt or an
uncle or a grandparent so there may not
be money involved but someone who
allegedly with your best interests in
heart would go out and seek a suitable
match for you and recommend them and
introduce you to them or introduce you
to their parents to some kind of formal
process right these websites in these
applications don't make introductions
they mostly make their money through
concealment of nearly random matches and
suggestions right so the way bumble
operates one of its principles and again
this is why trying to market romance in
the Internet is so different from trying
to market friendship if someone sees
your advertisement you're listening and
likes you they like the look of youth
alike description you they have a 24
hour window of time to write to you and
start the connection going now you could
say they're doing this just to create
excitement they're actually doing to
generate revenue the reality is that
bumble will give you a little warning
and say oh you're running out of time to
make this connection so why don't you
just pay a small fee and you can get an
extra 24 hours or extra week something
like this it'll last the time and who is
this person you're paying to have the
opportunity to talk to you don't know
you you've never talked to them by
definition here but also it's not as if
the application is recommending this
person is suitable for you it's almost
at random but through concealment and
they're inviting you to let your
imagination run wild and think this is
some great opportunity for you they're
trying to nudge you into basically
irrational economic behavior because
what you're paying for in that
circumstance let's pay it let's face it
you're paying for nothing
this is like [ __ ] where it's like
crippled software there's no reason for
this opportunity to disappear after 24
hours except that they want to ransom
the opportunity for you to pay for it
for more time now in a romantic context
in the context of people maybe seeking
out the person they're gonna get married
to and raise kids with you can
nevertheless sympathize with that
irrational economic behavior but if
talking about friendship
what friendship then this just becomes
farcical and the whole structure of the
structure and even symbolism gonna get
into what I mean by zone there the
semiotic of this situation of exchanging
photographs in the internet and trying
to spark up some kind of relationship it
becomes downright laughable when they
shift from the category of marketing
romance to do marketing friendship um
but in terms of economics I just want to
emphasize that what they're mostly using
to entice the money out of your wallet
is concealment as having a kind of
exotic veil of inscrutability separating
you from these unknown theoretically
great matches that you that you could be
making right now I downloaded this app
today because I read on the internet a
very brief statement that it's not just
for dating it's also for friendship and
there was some kind of separate mode
like somehow the app worked differently
if you were seeking friendship rather
than seeking love the sex etc romance it
so that already was a little bit
interesting to me because the one other
website I knew from years ago back when
I was married it did have an option to
say that you weren't seeking romance or
an opportunity that you were only
seeking friendship but if we're being
honest that was really just like turning
the only intensity on a dating app that
was really just like saying hey I don't
have time to date or spark up new
romances now it didn't change the mode
it didn't change the way the website
worked so you were still you know in
theory being introduced to new by all
members the opposite sex unless you were
using it as a gay or bisexual person and
then again to the behavior
website doesn't change that much so with
bumble specifically part of the veil of
inscrutability part of this you know
exotic dis tan she ation it creates
between the people it's allegedly
connecting is precisely that when in
heterosexual relationships only women
can initiate conversations with men
now this solves a problem I think other
website had what other websites have
which is just a female fatigue so when I
was on the other dating website that I
keep alluding to again many years ago
women would get in touch with me who had
no visible profile and on that website
us is hilarious
Saudi won't believe it but that website
like it gave you a rating for how
attractive you were which was based on
like an algorithm of how many other
people like showed interest in you and I
actually got the highest rating so
should imagine my competition ma so I
actually quite frequently got messages
from invisible profiles and those were
women who said yeah I'm on this website
trying to meet people but they don't
want the attention they don't want to be
dealing with maybe a hundred messages a
day from guys they've no interest in no
compatibility so Bumble the side just
shut that down by saying okay only
fee-only females can initiate a
conversation with males now right away
you have a question how is this gonna
apply to gay people how's this gonna
apply to bisexuals and then what they
have a separate mechanism like there's a
separate column for friendship
how is it going to apply to friends
right there also questions about how are
they gonna make money out of it
interesting in itself
um what really struck me though the
reason why I really want to make this
video was the absurdity of taking the
the you know the kind of oblong
photograph you know compatibility
matching process and applying it to
friendship instead of romance and for me
even as using this for a few minutes it
really forced me to reflect on like what
is the meaning of adult friendship in
contrast to romance so like I turn this
thing on and I I click on friend mode so
friend will they call BFF best best
friends forever
okay now
first surprise only men so like right
away I'm just stunned like what is the
assumption is the assumption that
because of a heterosexual man all of my
friends would be heterosexual man and
not gay men gay women straight women or
bisexuals of either gender or let's face
it guys this is 2018 there are some
other categories here for transgender
whatever just y know so if I wanted to
make friends with heterosexual women I
would have to go into the the other part
of yet the romance and dating part and
declare that I'm not available I'd have
to be dating people as someone already
in relation who's not available
in order to meet women as friends it's a
friend part of the website is only for
heterosexual men meeting other her
desertion so this is this is the first
thing the second thing is Bill's deeply
into Bumble and yeah I did like two
minutes of research on this Bumble is
different from some other dating
websites or apps in that it will only
recommend romantic partners to you who
are very closely similar to you in age
so for me I'm 39
so you looking at matches who are just
like 37 38 39 okay and this has applied
also to friendship now I have had
friends heterosexual male friends who
were way past retirement age when I was
in my 20s and those were friendships I
learned a lot from now it's interesting
those friendships didn't last basically
didn't last when I relocated when I
moved out of the city I was living in I
lost those friends okay but I mean
that's also partly a generational thing
people from that generation are not as
good at keeping a relation going by
email or Skype or something right but be
that as it may I have hand friendships
that that were important in my life with
other men who were much older than me
it's almost needless to say I've had
friendships of people also who were
significantly younger than me now look I
could get into a discourse here all
friendship is asymmetrical I've actually
at videos starting but in the past I had
some really good conversations the guy
named Mohammed his internet name is
Mohammed Socrates one
in Europe brilliant young man strikingly
brilliant astoundingly well-read a lot
of conversations about history and
politics and to some extent she art also
because we went to a couple museums
together and it would have never met him
it wasn't the Internet but he is much
younger than me so sure in talking about
certain topics
you know I behave a little bit
differently with him than I would with
someone who's the same age in you or
someone who's decades older than me it's
true but it is possible for me to be a
friend with somebody who's much younger
than me or somebody much older than me
I've also already implicitly said I
could be friends with someone who's male
or female or some of those other
categories that have been alluded to for
me actually a lot of my friends have
been women who were bisexual more often
than lesbian but you know like yeah I
can be friends to the woman where there
is no you know there is no issue of like
seething repressed attraction or I think
well that's you know that that's out of
the question that's not it's not at the
table um but I just saving this 2018 why
would you assume this is only men
seeking men and why is it only men of
the same age the most absurd thing knows
when you're looking at this image so
this oblong self-portrait and there were
all these symbols that have such a clear
value in the context of dating in the
context of seeking out love or romance
like you know if there's a guy with his
boat on the coast on vacation like you
know in a dating context what this means
the boat is not just a boat the boat
says I have achieved a certain level of
financial success or independence I
don't live at home with my parents
anymore I have some kind of job I'm you
know I like it it suggests that he's not
an alcoholic and not a drug addict and
isn't someone who spends all this time
in nightclubs downtown that he simply
spends more time those there were all of
these qualities that are symbolized in
him choosing to present you with an
image of him standing next to a boat
that he allegedly owns maybe just rented
it whatever the story is um and I think
all of us understand is there
to within our own culture within our own
language group we understand what those
symbols mean on a dating website why you
would represent yourself literally
holding certain objects in the same way
that like a 16th century painted
portrait will show someone holding
certain objects riding on their horse
wearing their armor holding you know
religious are objects and that certain
weapons and so on there will be a direct
symbolic representation of a person's
historical political and economic
station in the world in a portrait
that's painted of them in creating the
selfie for the dating website
hilariously in 2018 we really are doing
the same but it's almost always
symbolically suggestively hinting at the
qualities that will make you a reliable
parent even if you're a child free
person even if you're an antenatal swear
even for someone if you're somebody
never wants to have kids still normally
what you're trying to get at is you know
it's suggesting your level of education
your level of employment your level of
well sure those things are there but
very often look I could say it's just at
my age but also I think it's probably
even more intense for people in their
20s like people who are younger a lot of
the time what they're showing in those
photographs is I don't live with my
parents anymore like you know if you if
you date me I'm not in my parents
basement I'm not this I'm not that
whether it's showing that they have
their own apartment or that they have
their own car or whatever it is
symbolically their station in the world
which of course very much in your 20s is
gonna be called into question and their
potential for earnings in the future
their potential to be a good partner a
good mate ultimately a good parent is
being displayed through a series of
simple gestures in that in that that one
selfie that one that one image but then
the absurdity is for me if I'm on this
website looking for friendship I saw I'm
a heterosexual man I would never be
friends with another man because he owns
a boat I might be his friend despite the
fact that he wants a boat you know it's
another one
you know I'm vegan it's not what this
video is about but I am vegan and so
many of these images
whether it's a man or a woman will show
them like beasting a turkey show them
cooking something show them presenting
to you some elaborate meal they prepared
and again all of this is hinting at
whether they're conscious of it or not
that they would make a good parent that
they're a responsible person they know
how to they know how to clean an oven
they don't want to prepare a complex
meal they know what to perform certain
cultural rituals they know how to take
responsibility that would be involved in
sharing an apartment together sharing
your life together possibly raising a
kid together
right all being symbolized and displayed
for you in this in this snapshot I might
be friends with somebody who knows how
to roast a turkey like someone who's
showing this kind of image despite the
fact that they roasted turkey I might be
friends someone who owns an expensive
car or who goes mountain climbing that's
another thing people show off who goes
on a beach vacation I might be friends
of them despite these things but it's
just laugh out loud hilarious to be
holding the phone and looking at this
amp which is again extensively not a
dating app but a friendship app and to
imagine that I'm gonna try to get in
touch with this guy because of what's
being displayed in these in these
pictures and really the only difference
between these pictures and what you get
in the straight-up romantic dating side
of the same application is that very
often the guys do show themselves with
their girlfriend or with their wife you
know whatever their their situation
might be and again even that there's the
same absurdity so if I become friends
with a guy would it be because he has a
wife or because he has a girl would like
it just doesn't make sense you've got
this same set of cultural cues that are
in a sense boasting its declaring these
your accomplishments this is your social
status and now you're gonna initiate a
friendship so look guys this experience
today it only happened today that I
signed I found this out and sign up for
bumble and click through these these
screens and you know you have to go
through your process you put up a
description of yourself and some photos
of yourself and then you see how this
works and you realize that they've
they've segregated it by gender that
that for them for the owners of bumble
corporation the difference between
friendship and romance is that only in
the friendship category you only talk to
man whereas I would have thought
if you talk to men and women equally no
apparently not um oh the internet went
through a kind of transitional stage
where people were primarily known by
their written words like maybe that
ended around 1999 but I can remember in
the early days the internet where people
would first meet you and get to know you
by the written word by your comments but
you know in a forum or articles you've
written things you presented in terms of
your ideas your research what you cared
about and they really knew you as black
and white letters first and maybe later
they got in touch to you by email and
saw your photograph and the funny thing
is course from that era
all kinds of crazy romances I mean there
are children being born and raised there
probably children have grown into adults
from that early era of the internet and
of people reading by their words
thoughts values by their principles you
know first and foremost and then very
quickly of course the internet slid the
other way where people were meeting for
the first time because of what they look
like maybe because their charisma what
they sound like how they talk but maybe
indeed because of things they owned
because of images of them with the car
they owned the boat they owned about the
lifestyle they lead being put in the
internet very rapidly you know that that
peculiar character the internet had of
bringing together unlikely couples yeah
I guess I'm thinking romantic couples
but sure also unlikely friends around
the world and even stars in the same
city people you would have never met
otherwise if you weren't on that board
discussing how you love African drumming
music and it turns out there's someone a
few blocks away who also likes the same
kind of African German music and then
you meet at a coffee shop you meet at a
Tim Hortons or whatever and then it can
start a friendship to last the rest of
your life that was really what made the
internet kind of exciting as a new
technology I don't know 1992-1998 or
something like that you know and you
know so quickly that slipped away and
now we have this invidious division
there are a few places where people
still express themselves in text only
but they are primarily Anonymous places
like red
places like the YouTube comments you
know below this video and then there
were places where you know your face
your image your photograph the things
you own are very much you know first and
foremost what gets presented what gets
received what represents you and if this
app on bumble um to me as I say it was
it was just a laugh out loud funny you
know reflection on what is friendship
and why is the internet so bad today in
2018 and helping grown adults make new
friends but for me it's it's really
something to reflect on okay guys that's
fine that's my product review for bumble
with the the BFF tab or column then you
can click on I would say that it is an
absolute failure and I think that the
people at bumble have to go back to the
drawing board and think again very
fundamentally about because they have a
third column also that you're looking
for work contacts that you're looking
for colleagues for for networking in
this professional and career oriented
sense I think they have to start again
and really think about what are the
criteria whereby we first recognize
someone as a potential friend and how we
get into the first stages of getting to
know and trust someone when it's not
just a matter of giving them a chance or
rejecting up on faces of their
appearance who could care for a friend
when this is not full minutes
you know why sorry how ugly would
someone have to be for you to not be
friends with them this is just
friendship I mean it's it's ludicrous
you know sorry it's just it's just
bizarre to me
they thought they could take you know
kind of the same jar used for marketing
romance on the internet and pour out the
contents and put in put in new concept
new new user-generated content the same
container would work just fine for
friendship but instead what we have with
bumble is a is a bazaar or lesson and
just how fundamentally different and
record your reconcilable those two
things are okay guys below this video
I'll put the link to the Twitter of
from tofu goddess and I'll also put in
the link to those old videos that I did
now about a year and a half ago talking
about romance in the 21st century I
think some of the best content in this
channel